Prepare DB migration demo (#70)
cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo: db-acra-migration/README.md

# Migration process, python app, PostgreSQL

Python client application, DB migration, AcraServer, PostgreSQL database.

## 1. Installation

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/master/run.sh | \
    bash -s -- db-acra-migration
```

This command downloads a simple Python application that run data migration in a database, Acra Docker containers, PostgreSQL database, sets up the environment, configures python application that run migration process, and provides a list of links for you to try.

## 2. What's inside

> **Migration script** is a simple [python console application](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/blob/master/db-acra-migration/python) that works with a database. The application **generate** the data in by copying data from [`users.csv`](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/blob/master/db-acra-migration/python/users.csv) file .The application **migrate** the plaintext data with Acra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Migration script** is a simple [python console application](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/blob/master/db-acra-migration/python) that works with a database. The application **generates** the data by copying data from [`users.csv`](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/blob/master/db-acra-migration/python/users.csv) file. The application **migrates** the plaintext data with Acra.
```

SQL used to store data ([`users.csv`](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra-engineering-demo/blob/master/db-acra-migration/python/users.csv)) to DB:

```
COPY users (id,phone_number,ssn,email,firstname,lastname,age) FROM STDIN WITH (FORMAT CSV, HEADER)
```

Read data directly from DB (password `test`). You should see a bunch of generated test data:

```bash
docker exec -it db-acra-migration_python_1 psql -h postgresql -U postgres -d test -c "SELECT * from users limit 10";

$:
id | phone_number |    ssn    |             email             | firstname |  lastname  | age 
----+--------------+-----------+-------------------------------+-----------+------------+-----
  0 | 8201931087   | 600268041 | josiahharris@lubowitz.info    | Wayne     | Stehr      |  29
  1 | 5788345157   | 809025969 | carolynbashirian@stanton.com  | Gerardo   | Eichmann   |  50
  2 | 6281630684   | 762376292 | tinadickinson@farrell.com     | Ralph     | Schoen     |  46
  3 | 2572577764   | 996643249 | ottilieruecker@konopelski.com | Dylan     | Schiller   |  46
  4 | 7923022562   | 854151949 | garnettvandervort@denesik.org | Darius    | McKenzie   |  20
  ....
```

### 2.3 Update DB

> Change DB data types to `bytea` as Acra requires it to store ciphertext. 

Reviewer: when I read this, it triggers me that miss description about current schema of the database and from what types we migrate now. Let's add one more paragraph at start with the description, that we have data schema like ..... and we generate test data and then will show how to migrate from the not encrypted to the encrypted data with acra.

Note, that `age` and `email` remains the same as will be used for tokenization and data type changing is not needed.

```bash
docker exec -it db-acra-migration_python_1 psql -h postgresql -U postgres -d test -c "ALTER TABLE users
ALTER COLUMN phone_number TYPE bytea using phone_number::bytea,

>     ALTER COLUMN ssn TYPE bytea using ssn::bytea,

Reviewer: are these tabs planned or misspelled?

```bash
docker exec -it db-acra-migration_python_1 python3 /app/migration.py --migrate

$:
Running migration for 1001 rows:
Migrated 0 items
Migrated 100 items
Migrated 200 items
Migrated 300 items
Migrated 400 items
.....
.....
```

After migration is completed, read the DB to see the actual state of the data. You should see ciphertext.

```bash
docker exec -it db-acra-migration_python_1 psql -h postgresql -U postgres -d test -c "SELECT * from users limit 10";
```

To get actual data, read it from Acra directly with `--print` param:

```bash
docker exec -it db-acra-migration_python_1 python /app/migration.py --print

$:
0   - 8201931087 - 600268041 - josiahharris@lubowitz.info - Wayne - Stehr - 29
1   - 5788345157 - 809025969 - carolynbashirian@stanton.com - Gerardo - Eichmann - 50
2   - 6281630684 - 762376292 - tinadickinson@farrell.com - Ralph - Schoen - 46
3   - 2572577764 - 996643249 - ottilieruecker@konopelski.com - Dylan - Schiller - 46
```

### 2.5 Connect to the database from the web

1. Log into web PostgreSQL interface [http://localhost:8008](http://localhost:8008) using user/password: `test@test.test`/`test`.

2. Find the table and the data rows.

> <img src="../_pics/db_web_migration.png.png" width="700">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img src="../_pics/db_web_migration.png" width="700">
```
